
--- Page 1 ---
BML Munjal University
Gurugram (Haryana)

Version-1

Career Development Policy, 2019

Approved in 31° Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06

--- Page 2 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY”
A Hero GROUP INITIATIVE

Career Development Policy, 2019

Version-1
Introduction:

“BML Munjal University (BMU)” is committed to provide opportunities for its students to
further develop their knowledge, skills and capabilities. This shall enable our students,
upon graduation, prominent responsibility in industry. The students shall develop
themselves into ethical leaders who would create positive impact on self, their

organizations and society at large.

In pursuit to achieve the above-mentioned objective, the Career Guidance &
Development Centre (CGDC) of the university facilitates all the eligible set of students
pursuing their undergraduate and post graduate programs with BMU, to avail and
undertake suitable opportunities pertaining to Practice Schools (Internships) and Final
Placements. The process shall also involve participation of reputed and prominent
Corporates/ PSUs, Govt. Sector organizations etc. CGDC provides opportunity for each
student to go through the internship and final placement process to be able to get a valid
offer from an organization. The facilitation process is executed with best of the efforts
and true spirit. The responsibility of participation, preparation and being successful
during the process solely lies with the student, the CGDC shall be a continuous guiding

force.

Abbreviations:

SOM- School of Management

SOET-School of Engineering and Technology
PlaceComm- Placement Committee (Student Body)
CDP- Corporate Development Policy

CGDC- Career Guidance & Development Centre
PS- Practice School

Approved in 31% Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 1 of 16

--- Page 3 ---
Pe - e
&
»

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ™
A HE GROUP INITIATIVE

CFP- Campus Final Placement

CPSP-Campus Practice School Process

A. Practice School (PS)-

Reference:
Practice SOET | - SOM
School UG [ UG PG
PS- | Industry visit Industry visit myers ices
internship
Two months | Two months OS
PS- Il industry industry -
internship internship
Six months - 7 a
PS- Ill industry
internship

PS- Il for UG (SOET & SOM) and PS for PG (SOM)- also known as Summer Practice School
and PS-III

Summer Practice School (Internship) is a mandatory aspect of UG & PG programmes
offered at BMU. It is a graded activity, carrying specific credit points as per the program.
Elaborate details of the programmes shall be available at the Programme Office of
respective schools. The period of the Summer Practice School shall be as per the
Academic Calendar.

During internship period, a student would be accountable to the host organisation and
would report to an industry supervisor. Each student would be also be mapped to a BMU

faculty who would mentor and guide him/her during the internship.

Approved in 31% Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 2 of 16

--- Page 4 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY “
A HErO GROUP INITIATIVE

Students have two routes to organize the internship. They can either participate in the
Summer Campus Practice School Process (CPSP) or they can arrange the internship on
their own, through Self Internship Placement Process (SPP).

Rules for Summer Practice School:

1. CPSP runs on the principle of ‘One Student, One Offer’

2, Eligible students are required to register with CGDC with in the stipulated time, to
be a part of CPSP. Students failing to register within the time frame, must seek

placement through their own efforts (Self Internship)

3. The CGDC upon receipt of intent/opportunity from an organisation would share the
details with the students. The eligible students whose registration is active (and not
suspended) must avail the opportunity

4. The selection of the student would usually be done by the respective organisation.
The choice of the selection process would remain the prerogative of the organisation.
It could include various tests, group discussions, personal interviews and other

activities

5. Student upon receiving an offer from a company through CPSP would have to accept
the offer and undertake the internship at the organization. The student would be

withdrawn from the CPSP and cannot participate further

6. In case an organisation were to ask CGDC to allocate/ shortlist the student(s) to the
opportunity(ies) then CGDC would conduct the appropriate process on behalf of the
organisation and the rules (nos. 3-5) listed above would be applicable

Approved in 315 Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 3 of 16

--- Page 5 ---
&

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY”
A Hef GROUP INITIATIVE

7. Once a student is eligible for a process, cannot withdraw or decline to participate in

the selection process

8. In case a student receives more than one offer on the same day, then the student
would have a day’s time to choose one. Student needs to communicate the choice
to CGDC, via email within a day. If no acknowledgement is received, CGDC shall allot

the first confirmed organization, to the student

9. The projects during the Practice Schools shall be vetted by the academic team before
allocation. However, in case of PS-II| + Placement the final project allotment shall

lie with the organization discretion

Self-Internship Placement Process (SPP)

10. All students, including those registered for CPSP can try to seek internship
opportunities through own efforts made under Self-Internship Placement Process
(SPP). The students should not seek internship opportunities at companies owned in
their relations or work under their supervision. This reduces the learning opportunity

11. Students who have accepted an offer through CPSP are not allowed to continue and
seek any further offer(s) through SPP

12. The offers received through SPP are required to be shared immediately upon receipt
by student for approval by Dean’s office. The approval would need to be routed
mandatorily through CGDC. This is to ensure that such offers do not conflict with
CPSP process and the offers are appropriate for providing relevant learning to the

students

Approved in 31%t Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 4 of 16

--- Page 6 ---
13.

14,

15.

® As

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ™
A HefO GROUP INITIATIVE

Student upon receipt of an offer through SPP needs to inform CGDC immediately

(along with confirmation letter) so that all his/her applications for internship through
CPSP can be withdrawn

If a student were to get offers from CPSP and SPP on the same day, then the student
would be required to establish to CGDC that the SPP offer was received on the same
day as CPSP and not earlier. Post this being established, student would be given one
day’s time to choose one offer for internship. Student needs to communicate the
choice to CGDC, via email within a day. If CGDC were not to receive the
communication from student with in a day, then the offer received from CPSP would
be allocated to the student

If a student declines to accept the offer received through CPSP then the student may
be restricted to participate in the CFP process and/or may be referred for

Disciplinary & Appeal Committee

General Rules & Regulations

16.

17.

18.

The final selection and offering of projects, stipends, and location of posting would
be the prerogative of the organization that extends the offer

In case the student upon accepting an offer were not to join the internship or were
to leave the internship prior to completion, without the approval from organisation
or consulting with faculty mentor or CGDC, then the student can be restricted to

participate in CFP and may also be referred for disciplinary action

Students would not be allowed to change the organisation after commencement of
internship. In exceptional cases, any change in internship, irrespective whether the
offer was received through CPSP or SPP must be referred to Dean / CGDC for review

and approval

Approved in 31% Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 5 of 16

--- Page 7 ---



Students would be accountable for all the information/data provided by the
organisation and they should strictly abide by the policies and procedures laid out by
the organisation for Internship. Any violation brought to the notice of CGDC by the
corporate would be treated seriously and the student may be referred for disciplinary
action. During the Internship period, students would need to adhere to all reporting
norms and performance parameters in accordance with the requirement of the
program office at BMU

If any organization decides to discontinue internship of a student, CGDC shall further
determine the reason for the same. If the student is found at fault, the required

disciplinary action could be taken, against the student

Students are required to discuss with CGDC or the faculty mentor if they have any
concern or issue related to the internship. Involving parents, friends, family or

anyone else for discussion with organisation is strictly not recommended
Students are expected and advised not to indulge in activities that are contrary to
the interests of the organisation or BMU. In case of lack of clarity, the student would

need to consult faculty mentor, immediately

Campus Final Placement (CFP)

. CGDC along with respective schools at BMU shall facilitate CFP for the graduating

students of various programs

. CFP would run on the principle of ‘One Student, One Offer’

Approved in 31%* Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 6 of 16

--- Page 8 ---


3. The students shall qualify the below listed criteria to be eligible, register and
participate in the CFP. All the mentioned criteria always need to be fulfilled, by
student, to remain in the CFP
a. Minimum CGPA of 5.0 for PG and 6.0 for UG at SOM
b. Minimum CGPA of 6.0 for UG at SOET. However, University is committed to provide
opportunities to each student and wherever company allows the students with
less CGPA may be permitted for that company accordingly

c. B. Tech Students who expect to graduate by the end of the academic year and
are actively seeking employment must register his candidature with CGDC as per
the principle ‘One Student, One Core Job Offer’.

d. Student should not have accumulated more than 2 backlogs. However, as per
company’s discretion and policy, respective set of students will be allowed

e. English communication proficiency of minimum B2 level as per BMU test.

f. Total disciplinary penalty points to be less than 100

g. Student must not have been debarred from CPSP or voluntarily withdrawn from
CPSP

h. A student shall be allowed any number of opportunities under CFP, till gets
placed. However, student’s active participation and preparedness shall be
assessed on regular basis. If found continuous faltering, shall be restricted for
further CFP

i. Student must not have accumulated three (03) non-participation in CFP

j. The CGDC and Academics may decide to mandate participation of all
eligible/unplaced students, in all the further CFPs, post certain period of ongoing
CFP

4. Eligible students need to register (once in an academic year) with CGDC with in the
stipulated date for being included in the CFP. If at any time the registered students
were to fail meeting all the eligibility criteria for CFP, then their registration would

be suspended till they fulfil all criteria

Approved in 31*t Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 7 of 16

--- Page 9 ---


Students failing to register within the stipulated time would need to seek placement

through self-efforts

Pre-Placement Offer (PPO)

6.

Students, who receive a PPO from any organisation prior to CFP, will need to inform
CGDC within 24 hours of receipt of the same

. If the student had consented to pursue PPO from an organisation than the receipt of

PPO would be treated as valid offer and the student would be removed from the CFP

. Incase it was to be known that student has not infirmed CGDC about receipt of PPO

and taken part in CFP, then the student would consider out of CFP. This shall be
treated at the merit of the PPO/student

Guest Lectures (GL) and Pre-Placement Talks (PPT)



CGDC would facilitate organizations for PPT. Executives from the various
organizations, shall also be invited for GL. If mandated by CGDC, all unplaced &
eligible students are notified to attend, irrespective of their registration for CFP, or
whether the opportunity is from their area of specialization or not. The process shall
be coordinated by PlaceComm

In case of multiple PPTs or GLs, student allotment would be done by CGDC, and an
attendance would be maintained. PlaceComm would be _ responsible for
implementation and adherence. Students who do not attend these activities would

need to get approval from Dean’s office for the same to remain in CFP

Students who do not attend these activities would need to get approval from Dean’s

office for the same to remain in CFP

Approved in 31% Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 8 of 16

--- Page 10 ---


12. Students should be available for participating in GLs/PPTs and further selection

process. Any absence could be availed only with information and advice of CGDC
13. Students are required to be attentive and participative in the GL’s/PPTs

Student Employability Enhancement Program (SEEP)

14. CGDC and or program office could organize various activities to enhance the
employability of the students. These activities may include, additional classroom or
other teaching sessions, workshops, trainings, mock interviews, take home

assignments etc.

15. Students can be mandated to attend (minimum of 80%) the same and obtain certain
level of proficiency, as measured by an evaluation system. Failure to achieve such
conditions could lead to being suspended or restricted to participate in CFP till the
students obtains a valid ‘Certificate of Preparedness’ from the academics.

Resume and information

16. Students shall prepare their resume as per the prescribed format provided by CGDC.
The contents of the resume and their accuracy shall be sole responsibility of the
student. Hiding or mis-leading information could result in student being debarred
from CFP

Selection Process
17. CGDC shall propose all relevant profiles with the organization. The shortlisting/
selection is the prerogative of the organisation. The shortlisting/selection process

may include various tests, group discussions, personal interviews and other activities

18. Student upon receiving an offer from a company through CFP would be considered

placed and would be withdrawn from the CFP and cannot participate further

<M

+,

AN
Approved in 31%* Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019 A ;

under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 9 of 16

--- Page 11 ---
19.

20.

21.

22.

@

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ”
AHef0 GROUP INITIATIVE

If there be a mismatch of expectations and the PPO, CGDC would assist the student in
addressing the issues. A reasonable time, as determined by CGDC would be given for
resolution, thereafter the student would be required to make the decision and
communicate the same to CGDC, via email within the time limit set by CGDC

Students should convey their acceptance of offer as per the corporate’s policies

If a student gets more than one offer during the announcement of results, he/she has
the option to select anyone within the prescribed time. However, if there is a delay
in the announcement of an offer when one offer has already been made, only the

earliest offer stands valid and the student will be treated as placed and out of CFP

Dream opportunity for B. Tech students: A student with a valid job offer of either a
Core or a Non-Core, can avail additional opportunity of their choice (Dream Company)
to participate, during rest of the recruitment period in the academic year. Students
with two offers by same day process / delay in results declaration, will not be allowed
for this scheme. A student who got placed in one Non-core as well as One Core job is

not eligible for subsequent Dream opportunity

Marquee company for B. Tech students: All placed / unplaced eligible students will
be further allowed to appear for opportunities in Marquee status company, till he/
she gets placed with such companies, during this period. The Marquee status company
will be defined as per the discretion of the University. No further request will be

entertained on that subject.

Marquee opportunity for SOM student: All placed / unplaced eligible students shall
be further allowed to appear for opportunities in ‘Marquee Status Company’ until he/

she is placed with one such company, during the period. The ‘Marquee Status

Approved in 31% Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019 A> Le
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 10 of 16

--- Page 12 ---
23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28,

29.

Approved in 315 Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019

a

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY *
A Hef GROUP INITIATIVE

Company’ definition shall lie in the purview and sole discretion of the Management /

University. Any specific requests shall not be entertained on the subjected matter

Students are not expected to insist for higher remuneration or change in profiles
during the selection process, especially interviews. This can only be done when the
organisation is seeking the expectations of the students

Students are also discouraged to directly contact the organisations on matters that
affect the CFP. They are required to contact CGDC for discussing the points of
concerns. Any negative feedback from the organisations would be viewed seriously

and can lead to suspension/removal from CFP

The students are free to pursue opportunities beyond CFP but are not allowed to

contact the organisations which participate in the CFP

Students pursuing opportunities outside of CFP might require verification/reference,

the same should be routed through CGDC only

Students who get offer through CFP or otherwise should submit copy of the Offer
Letter/Letter of Engagement (LoE) to CGDC to get their ‘No dues’ clearance from
CGDC

If a student receives any communication from a company, he/she is advised to take
that conversation forward through guidance of CGDC. Any queries for offer letter or

joining date should always be routed through CGDC

Any student who wishes to opt for higher studies post receiving any job offer, may be
allowed with submission of valid letter/offer received from the university/institution,

by the month of December =z

under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 11 of 16

--- Page 13 ---
é aa
&
BML MUNJAL

UNIVERSITY
A HEC GROUP INITIATIVE

BMU Student Discipline Code

Violation of Discipline Code shall lead the matter to be adjudicated by the ‘Disciplinary

& Appeal Committee’

30. BMU Discipline Code is applicable during Practice School (Internship) and Final

31.

Placement Process. BMU insists all students to maintain the highest standards of

ethics, integrity and professionalism in dealing with recruiters

All students should personally uphold and abide, in letter and spirit, by the values,

purpose, and rules of BML Munjal University Discipline Code, as mentioned below

Students are required to be present in formal business attire for GLs/PPTs and
selection processes and at the mentioned reporting time & venue. Non-
Compliance shall lead to disciplinary action

Students are expected to be true in representation. Falsified information/
Impersonation/ Deceitfulness may lead to immediate suspension from CPSP/CFP
and the case shall further be recommended to the Disciplinary Committee for
necessary action.

Should not seek, receive, or obtain an unfair advantage over other students as a
few students may get opportunity to interact with recruiters due to their positions
or by assignments

Students rejecting the offer of Practice School (arranged by the university) and/or
are found undisciplined during Practice School, shall be immediately suspended
from further CFP and referred to the Disciplinary Committee

Student with 03 absenteeism from the CFP, shall not be extended support from
CGDC and to be considered debarred from CFP

Approved in 31%t Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 12 of 16

--- Page 14 ---
ie

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ™
AH@f0 GROUP INITIATIVE

e Reneging an offer or not completing Six (06) months of service- Reneging on an
“Accepted Offer” is a serious breach of ethics and students doing this shall not be
extended Alumni facilities for a period to be decided by the DAC.

Note: BMU retains the right to publish the names of the students, reneging offers

CGDC could also recommend to Registrar’s office to withhold the Degree Certification

for students who fail to report to the recruiting organization.

e Any student found violating the above-mentioned Discipline Codes may be
debarred from CFP, however the students can appeal to the aforementioned
committee for reconsideration. The responsibility to defend the case shall lie with

the student, with appropriate documents/evidences
Note: Details of action pertaining to different Indiscipline is mentioned in Annexure-1

Grade Disclosure Policy

32. Consistent with the BMU confidentiality policy, only the program office and BMU
officials in CGDC would have access to student grades/CGPA. It is the students’
responsibility to divulge their actual grades/CGPA in the context of recruitment. It
is important that:
a. The student discloses the CGPA accurately, without rounding off
b. Only the latest available cumulative CGPA is disclosed

Spirit of the Policy and Amendments
The policy is framed in such a way to COLLECTIVELY facilitate all students getting a fair
chance for Summer Internships / Final Placements, and no one keeps piling up offers at

Approved in 31% Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 13 of 16

the expense of other students.

--- Page 15 ---
4

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ™
AH@f0 GROUP INITIATIVE

If anyone has a better policy statement to be included in this, or a modification that is
“Pareto Superior”, which means NO student is worse off and at least one or more is better

off, then they can suggest to CGDC for suitable adoption/inclusion, and such

amendments.
Annexure-1
a Disciplinary Offence - a
Nature of | “Action _ -
Indiscipline | 1 Time Repeat 01 Repeat 02 _
Formal Attire during | Student in No-Formal | Debarred from next 02 | Student shall |
Placement processes Attire shall be asked | organizations in CFP be considered
to report in | (depending upon out of CFP
prescribed formal | eligibility)
attire, with-in the |
stipulated time
| frame. Otherwise
student to be marked
‘Absent’ for that
placement process
| and warning Letter to |
be issued with copy |
to Guardians
_ Non-Attendance during “Letter to be issued Letter tobe issued Student shall
Placement Process and __ with copy to with copy to be considered
Guest Lectures Guardians Guardians out of CFP

‘Late reporting during | Warning ‘letter to be | Warning ‘letter to be | Student shall.

| placement process issued with copy to issued with copy to | be considered
Guardians Guardians out of CFP

Approved in 31% Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019 =
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 14 of 16

--- Page 16 ---
1. Purposely spoiling the!

Placement process

2, Direct contact with
the company
3.Misbehaviour during
the process

4. Misrepresentation,
Cheating

Reneging Offer

Abrupt changing PS
Company/Location

Not joining at PS
Company/Location

Debarred from two
upcoming placement
processes and case
to be referred to
Disciplinary

Committee

' Recommended to

Registrar’s office to
withhold the Degree
Certification for
students who fail to
report to the
recruiting

organization

| Case to be referred

to Disciplinary

Committee

' Student shall be

considered out of CFP
and case to be
referred to
Disciplinary

Committee

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ™
A HefO GROUP INITIATIVE

| Student shall be

considered out of CFP

Approved in 31% Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019

under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06

Page 15 of 16

--- Page 17 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY”
A H@PO GROUP INITIATIVE

UNDERTAKING
| hereby dectare that | have read, understood and accepted the aforementioned ‘Career
Development Policy’ with respect to facilitation of Practice School (Internship) and Final
Placement by BML Munjal University. | shall fully abide by the provisions and rules that
are mentioned in the policy document.
Signature
Name

Registration. No

Date

Approved in 315‘ Board of Management; dated: August 27, 2019
under agenda item no: BOM.31/2019/04/31.B.06 Page 16 of 16
