
--- Page 1 ---
A Hero GROUP INITIATIVE

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ™

Code of Ethical & Professional Conduct

Students

BML MUNJAL UNIVERSITY

67" MILESTONE, NH-8, SIDHRAWALI, GURUGRAM, HARYANA- 122413

y

BMU/RO/2022/132; June 21, 2022; Code of Conduct Page | 1

Campus: 67” Milestone, NH-8, Sidhrawali, Gurugram, Haryana - 122413 Mentored by: Imperial College

Toll Free No:. 1800-103-6888 | info@bmu.edu.in | www.bmu.edu.in London
BUSINESS SCHOOL

--- Page 2 ---
AH@€fO GROUP INITIATIVE

BML MUNJAL

UNIVERSITY ™ Vision, Mission & Values

Vision

BML Munjal University (BMU) seeks to nurture ethical leaders who are skilled,
knowledgeable and have the life skills required for leading their organization to success.
The university shall seek the advancement and dissemination of practically oriented
knowledge benchmarked with the best global standards.

Mission

BML Munjal University aims to be a leading university for the quality and impact of its
teaching, research, and linkages with major stakeholders. The focus of the university is to find
creative solutions to problems through application of knowledge. The university aims to
create a talented community of students and faculty who excel in teaching, learning and
research, in a creative stimulating environment. The university will collaborate with other
institutions for development of science, technology, and arts in globalcontext.

Values

e Care towards people, communities, and the environment

e Pursuit of Excellence in learning, research, and community service
e Freedom of thought and thought leadership

e Integrity and Ownership

BMU/RO/2022/132; June 21, 2022; Code of Conduct Page | 2

Campus: 67° Milestone, NH-8, Sidhrawali, Gurugram, Haryana - 122413 Mentored by: Imperial College

Teli Free No:. 1800-103-6888 | info@bmu.edu.in | www.bmu.edu.in London
BUSINESS SCHOOL

--- Page 3 ---
A Helo GROUP INITIATIVE

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ™

Code of Conduct

Code of conduct is a collection of rules and regulations that include what is and is not
acceptable or expected behavior.

Why Code of Conduct is important?

It defines the VALUES* of an organisation and provides to all employees the boundaries of
their behaviour relative to their duties to the organisation. A well-written code of conduct
clarifies an organization's mission, values, and principles, linking them with standards of
professional conduct. Written codes of conduct or ethics can become benchmarks against
which individual and organizational performance can be measured. Additionally, a code is a
central guide and reference for employees to support day-to-day decision making. It
encourages discussions of ethics and compliance, empowering employees to handle ethical
dilemmas they encounter in everyday work. It can also serve as a valuable reference, helping
employees locate relevant documents, services and other resources related to ethics within
the organization.

Code of Ethical & Professional Conduct for Students

a) This Code shall apply to all kinds of conduct of students that: occurs on the Faculty
premises including in University-sponsored activities, functions hosted by other
recognized student organizations and any off-campus conduct that has or may have
serious consequences or adverse impact on the University’s Interests or reputation. At
the time of admission, each student must sign a statement accepting “Student Code of
Conduct and Learning Contract” and by giving an undertaking that
e He/she shall be regular and must complete his/her studies in the Department/

Faculty.

e In the event, a student is forced to discontinue studies for any legitimate reason,
such a student may be relieved from the University subject to the written consent
of the Deans

e As a result of such relieving, the student shall be required to clear pending
hostel/mess dues and if a student had joined the Faculty/Department of the
University on a scholarship, the said grant shall be revoked.

b) University believes in promoting a safe and efficient climate by enforcing behavioral
standards. All students must uphold academic integrity, respect all persons and their
rights and property and safety of others; etc.

¥ BMU/RO/2022/132; June 21, 2022; Code of Conduct Page | 3

Campus: 67” Milestone, NH-8, Sidhrawali, Gurugram, Haryana - 122413 Mentored by: Imperial College

Toll Free No:. 1800-103-6888 | info@bmu.edu.in | www.bmu.edu.in London
BUSINESS SCHOOL


--- Page 4 ---
A Hero GROUP INITIATIVE

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ™

c) All students must deter from indulging in any form of misconduct. The various forms of
misconduct include:
e Any act of discrimination (physical or verbal conduct) based on an individual’s
gender, caste, race, religion or religious beliefs, color, region, language, disability,
or sexual orientation, marital or family status, physical or mental disability, gender
identity, etc
e Intentionally damaging or destroying University property or property of other
students and/or faculty members
e Any disruptive activity in a classroom or in an event sponsored by the University
e Unable to produce the identity card, issued by the University, or refusing to produce
it on demand by campus security guards
e Participating in activities including
* Organizing meetings and processions without permission from the University.
* Accepting membership of religious or terrorist groups banned by the
University/Government of India

= Unauthorized possession, carrying or use of any weapon, ammunition,
explosives, or potential weapons, fireworks, contrary to law or policy.

* Unauthorized possession or use of harmful chemicals and banned drugs

® Smoking on the campus of the University

* Possessing, Consuming, distributing, selling of alcohol in the University and/or
throwing empty bottles on the campus of the University

* Parking a vehicle in a no parking zone or an area earmarked for parking another
type of vehicles

* Rash driving on the campus that may cause any inconvenience to others

" Not disclosing a pre-existing health condition, either physical or psychological,
to the Chief Medical Officer which may cause hindrance to the academic
progress.

« Theft or unauthorized access to other resources

® Engaging in disorderly, lewd, or indecent conduct, including, but not limited to,
creating unreasonable noise; pushing and shoving; inciting or participating in
a riot or group disruption at the University.

d) Students are expected not to interact, on behalf of the University, with media
representatives or invite media persons on to the campus without the permission of the
University authorities.

e) Students are not permitted to either audio or video record lectures in classrooms or
actions of other students, faculty, or staff without prior permission

f) Students are not permitted to provide audio and video clippings of any activity on the
campus to media without prior permission.

Campus: 67" Milestone, NH-8, Sidhrawali, Gurugram, Haryana - 122413 Mentored by: Imperial College
Toli Free No:. 1800-103-6888 | info@bmu.edu.in | www.bmu.edu.in London
BUSINESS SCHOOL


--- Page 5 ---
A Hef GROUP INITIATIVE

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY™

g) Students are expected to use social media carefully and responsibly. They cannot post
derogatory comments about other individuals from the University on the social media
or indulging in any such related activities having grave ramifications on the reputation
of the University.

h) Theft or abuse of the University computers and other electronic resources such as
computer and electronic communications facilities, systems, and services which includes
unauthorized entry, use, tamper, etc. of University property or facilities, private
residences of staff/professors etc. offices, classrooms, computers networks, and other
restricted facilities and interference with the work of others is punishable.

i) Damage to, or destruction of, any property of the University, or any property of others
on the University premises.

j) Making a video/audio recording, taking photographs, or streaming audio/video of any
person in a location where the person has a reasonable expectation of privacy, without
that person's knowledge and express consent.

k) Indulging in any form of Harassment which is defined as a conduct that is severe and
objectively, a conduct that is motivated on the basis of a person's race, colour, national
or ethnic origin, citizenship, sex, religion, age, sexual orientation, gender, gender
identity, marital status, ancestry, physical or mental disability & medical condition.

pl _Us>

y p>
= 6)
zp
REGISTRAR wv
a fe
*

Registrar

ae \\ ae University Gurugram

BMU/RO/2022/132; June 21, 2022; Code of Conduct Page | 5

Campus: 67" Milestone, NH-8, Sidhrawali, Gurugram, Haryana - 122413 Mentored by: Imperial College

Toll Free No:. 1800-103-6888 | info@bmu.edu.in | www.bmu.edu.in London
BUSINESS SCHOOL

