
--- Page 1 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ™

FROM HERE TO THE WORLD

BMU/RO/DAC/0236

Disciplinary Policy

27" September 2018

1. Discipline is essential for building character and working of the University. The BML Munjal
University expects the students to maintain discipline and decorum.

2. Disciplinary Offences

Category
of Offence

Nature of Offence

Fine

“Penalty
Points

Level 1

| Minor (e.g. Missing a compulsory Guest

Lecture/event/ smelling of cigarette or
liquor on campus/leaving campus without
permission, creating disturbance/nuisance
in hostel)

Rs. 1000

10

Level 2

Level 3

Major (e.g. Possession or consumption of
cigarettes/liquor on campus)

Rs. 2500

Serious (e.g. misbehaviour with support or|

security staff and faculty, cyber offence,
gambling, stealing, wilful abuse or damage
of university property, indulging in fights
and brawls, endangering life and property,
false activation of fire alarms)

Rs. 5000

25

50

Level 4

Critical (e.g. violent physical assault, serious
cyber offence, maligning the name of the
university and any activity bringing
disrepute to BMU)

Rs. 10000

100

3. Rules

i. If a student accumulates 100 penalty points (during the entire stay at BMU), she/he is
barred from placement.

ii. If a student accumulates 200 penalty points (during the entire stay at BMU) she/he will
be expelled from the university (BMU).

iii. | Students can violate discipline in an infinite number of ways. So, all instances and
examples cannot be mentioned in this document.

iv. Depending on the nature of indiscipline and misco
the First Ordinance of the University or a
complaint may also be awarded.

a ln Ay

any penalties as mentioned in
thereof including Police

--- Page 2 ---
vi.

vii.

viii.

xi.

xii.

xiii.

Xiv.

XV.

Paying the fine does not mean cancellation of the penalty points. Fine is over and above
the penalty points levied.

All cases of indiscipline shall be reported to the respective Dean’s Office promptly.
Dean’s Office in turn shall forward it to Member Secretary, Disciplinary Action
Committee (DAC).

Member Secretary DAC would allocate a unique number to every complaint. On the
advice of Chairman DAC, the complaint shall be forwarded to the Faculty Warden for
dealing in case of Level 1 & 2. For complaints under Level 3 & 4 DAC meeting shall be
convened.

The Faculty Warden would conduct an enquiry, give an opportunity of hearing to the
concerned student, and thereafter, decide the category of the offence. The decision of
Faculty Warden will be communicated to Member Secretary-DAC. Chairman DAC shall
award the fine imposed and/or the penalty points based on the disciplinary history of
the student. :

In case complaints under Level 3 & 4, DAC shall issue Show Cause Notice, conduct an
enquiry, afford a personal hearing to the student and thereafter take a decision.

The final decision would be sent to the concerned Program Office and Dean of the
School and the Registrar, after the approval of the President, BMU.

Program office will in turn will communicate the decision to the student and
parent/local guardian and also send a copy of the decision to the mentor of the student.

Records of penalty points awarded to its students to be maintained by Program Offices,
Registrar and the mentor.

Fines imposed must be paid within a week of the communication of the decision by the
Program Office and receipt of payment, produced. In case, the fine is not deposited
within a week, the Chairman DAC reserves the right to increase the fine. It will be the
duty of the Program Office to intimate Member Secretary-DAC in case of fine not
deposited by the student within the stipulated time period.

Students have the right to appeal against the award of fines and penalty points by
writing to appeal.dac@bml.edu.in after payment of an appeal fee of Rs. 500 within a
week’s time from the date of communication of the decision by the Program Office. The
Appellate Committee would meet and decide after affording the offender a hearing in
person. In case the appeal is upheld, the student would be refunded the appeal fee and
the fine/penalty points levied earlier will be adjusted appropriately. The Appellate
Committee would consider the appeal only after the student has paid the fine and
appeal fee. If the student’s appeal is turned down, the appeal fee will be forfeited.

DAC reserves the right to punish repeat offenders to a greater extent.


--- Page 3 ---
4. Constitution of DAC and Appellate

The Vice Chancellor/President will nominate the DAC which shall consist of:

a. Any Office of the University - Chairman
b. Four faculty - Members
c. One male and female student - Members
d. Assistant Registrar - Member Secretary

Quorum will be 4 members.

The Vice Chancellor/President will nominate the Appellate Committee*, which shall

consist of:
a. Vice Chancellor/ Pro-Vice Chancellor - Chairman
b. Dean of each School - Members
c. Registrar - Member
d. Two Faculty - Members
e. Assistant Registrar - Convener

*No member of DAC will form part of Appellate Committee.
Quorum will be 3 members.

Abhay Sharma”
Registrar

Ce:

EA to VC — For kind information of the Vice Chancellor
All Deans

DSW
