
--- Page 1 ---

BML Munjal University
Gurugram (Haryana)

Mentor-Mentee Policy, 2019

--- Page 2 ---
=

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY *
A HERO GROUP INITIATIVE

MENTOR - MENTEE POLICY, 2019
. SHORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT
The Policy shall be called the BML Munjal University “Mentor - Mentee Policy, 2019”
and shall come into effect from the date of approval by the Academic Council of the
University.
. AIM
Aim of the policy is to provide guidelines for student mentoring program of the

University;

. APPLICABILITY

3.1 The Policy shall be applicable to all students who are enrolled in a full-time
program of the University;

3.2 The University may, selectively make this policy applicable to part-time students
as well.

. DEFINITIONS

4.1 “University” means the BML Munjal University, Manesar, Haryana.

4.2 “School” means constituent unit of the University. A School may have two or
more Departments for imparting instruction.

4.3 “Dean” means the Dean of a School of the University.

4.4 “Department” means a unit of a School or a Centre of the University for the
delivery of academic programs: or is headed by a ‘Head of Department’ (HoD).

4.5 “Head of Department (HoD)” means the head of a Department under a School.

4.6 “Registrar” means the Registrar of BML Munjal University, Manesar, Haryana.

4.7 “Counselor” means a person trained to provide help and guidance to the
students, parents and employees on personal or psychological issues.
4.8 “Faculty Mentor” means a faculty member of a Department or a Centre tasked

with mentoring the students in order to maximize their learning potential.

Mentor-Mentee Policy, 2019 Page 1 of 10


--- Page 3 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ~

AKReERS CROUE INITIATIVE
4.9 “Mentee” means a student who is advised, trained or mentored by a mentor.

4.10 “Program” means a fixed educational study offered by the University leading to
conferment of a degree.
4.11 “Mentoring Program Coordinator” means a faculty member of a Department

designated as Mentoring Program Coordinator.

5. IMPORTANCE OF STUDENT MENTORING

5.1 Mentoring in BML Munjal University’s context is an endeavor to help students,
especially the slow learners, to resolve their study related problems and
improve academic performance through mentoring programs conducted by
designated Faculty Mentors on a regular basis.

5.2 Student mentoring gives more importance for the following reasons:

5.2.1 Student diversity in terms of varying linguistic, socio-cultural, economic
and geographical backgrounds.

5.2.2 Diverse educational background and academic standards of the students
enrolled.

5.2.3 Students’ expectations and apprehensions of learning in a new
environment and about their academic career at the university.

5.2.4 To correctly right understand the University academic policies that the
students are required to follow.

5.3 Considering above, it becomes essential that the students receive appropriate
guidance and support to facilitate their adjustment to the campus life/ culture,
teaching-learning process and to support their academic pursuits. In this
context, the role of faculty mentors is not only crucial but manifold for the
academic growth and to facilitate students to settle down and adjust for the
well-being of in its new environment.

5.4 The type of mentoring support shall depend upon the level of the program
pursued by the students.

Mentor-Mentee Policy, 2019 Page 2 of 10


--- Page 4 ---
®

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY “

A HEP GROUP INITIATIVE

5.4.1 Undergraduate students: To focuses on students’ academic progress and

career development, resolving their personal problems, as also to
encourage them to participate in co-curricular and extracurricular

activities.

9.4.2 Postgraduate students: To focuses on helping the students to develop

interest in research and innovations and to provide overall guidance and

grooming for choosing right career for themselves.

6. OBJECTIVES OF THE MENTORING PROGRAM
6.1 The mentoring program of the BML Munjal University is designed to serve the

following objectives:

6.1.1 Help acclimatize students from diverse backgrounds on the education

system and learning environment of the University.

6.1.2 Provide a free and neutral space to the students for sharing academic and

personal challenges arising in a new environment.

6.1.3 Resolve specific teaching-learning related difficulties of mentees and help

them to cope up with problems arising out of academic rigor or

inadequacy of academic support.

6.1.4 Mentor and motivate slow learners in keeping pace with the academic

activities, both within and outside the class.

6.1.5 Help students address reasons for shortfall in their academic performance

and / or class participation, and render advise on low attendance.

6.1.6 Extend beyond the classroom support, whatever support is essential for

6.1.7

improvement of the overall student experience and suggest specific
interventions to facilitate successful completion of graduate program.
Facilitate to resolve day to day administrative problems that a student

may generally face.

6.1.8 Help students improve their self-confidence and maximize their potential.

Mentor-Mentee Policy, 2019 Page 3 of 10

--- Page 5 ---
™
&

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY“

A ELD GROUP INITIATIVE
6.2 The mentoring program shall also help the University in getting constructive

feedback on students’ problems requiring attention and design a suitable

mechanism to take corrective actions.

7. MENTORING POLICY OF THE UNIVERSITY

7.1 Asa poticy, mentoring facility shall be extended to all students of the University,
However, attendance in the mentoring sessions shall be need based.

7.2 Every student shall be assigned a faculty mentor on day one of enrollment. A
mentor may be allocated up to 20 student mentees,

7.3 The faculty mentors shall meet the assigned mentees during the Orientation
Session for formal introduction. Thereafter, the mentor shall hold a
familiarization meeting with assigned mentees to know about their previous
educational experiences, their decision to Join this university and what they
hope to achieve.

7.4 The mentor shall meet the mentees individually or in groups, as the situation
demands, at least once in a month for their first year in the University and
thereafter at least once in two months. The mentoring sessions can be
requirement based, when the students’ progress to the final year of the program
or as decided by the concerned Dean.

However, in case needed, it shall be open for a mentee to approach and seek
mentoring support at any other time at the convenience of the mentor.

7.5 The mentoring shall be held during the office hours and the mentees shall be
informed by faculty mentors shall intimate through LMS, about the schedule of
mentoring meetings along with the time and place. The faculty mentors should
be flexible and approachable especially for student hailing from other states/
countries with different cultural backgrounds.

7.6 The mentees shall primarily be responsible to contact the faculty mentors.

However, the mentor can also take steps to contact his/her mentees initially.

Mentor-Mentee Policy, 2019 Page 4 of 10

--- Page 6 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ™
AH@F0 GROUP INITIATIVE

7.7 The mentoring shall cover academic issues, personality problems (shyness in
classroom/ communication problems, etc), psycho-social problems (feelings of
isolation), or other situations faced by the mentees. For Personality and psycho-
social problems, the faculty mentors shall arrange counseling with the University
Counselor.

7.8 Besides stressing the importance of attending the mentoring sessions, the mentors
shall encourage the students to use their time effectively and productively,

7.9 The mentors should encourage the mentees both during the times of
disappointment as well as success, He/she should be mindful of signs of
emotional and physical stress. If necessary, such mentees should be referred to
the University Counselor for counseling.

7.10 The mentors shall assess the progress of assigned mentees quarterly by reviewing
the attendance/grades and any other available information.

7.11 Issues like students facing bullying, etc. shall be brought to the notice of the
Head of Department and Dean and, if necessary, referred to the University
Counselor for counseling. Cases of serious nature should be reported
immediately without delay to the Registrar/Vice Chancetlor for appropriate
action.

7.12 The mentors shall record mentor-mentee interactions on ‘Feedback Forms’
specifically designed for the purpose. Such records may also be uploaded on a
‘Mentoring Portal’ every time the student approaches the mentor for the

purpose of mentoring.

8. MENTORING PROGRAM FORMAT
8.1 The mentoring program of a Department shall be overseen by a ‘Mentoring
Program Coordinator’ who, in tandem with the Head of the Department, shall
facilitate the smooth functioning and effectiveness of the Program at the

Department tevel.

Mentor-Mentee Policy, 2019 Page 5 of 10

©

--- Page 7 ---
®

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY”
A H@fO GROUP INITIATIVE

8.2 The Mentoring Program Feedback Formats shall be suitably designed by the
Mentoring Program Coordinator, in consultation with the Head of the
Department/Dean.

8.3 At the endofa semester, each Head of the Department shall forward mentoring
feedback of his/her Department to the Dean for detailed analysis and
appropriate action.

8.4 The University shall create an online Portal to help faculty mentors document
concerns of mentees and schedule further sessions with mentees depending on

mentees’ needs.

9.1 ROLE OF MENTORING PROGRAM COORDINATOR
9.1 The Mentoring Program Coordinator at the Department level shall oversee and
coordinate the functioning of the Faculty Mentors of the respective

Department.

9.2 The Mentoring Program Coordinator shall be appointed by the Dean of a School
in consultation with the concerned Head of the Department.

9.3 The tenure of the Mentoring Program Coordinator shall be two years and can be
extended or cut short depending upon his/her performance.

9.4 The role of the Mentoring Program Coordinator shall be to:

9.4.1 Disseminate and help understand the aims and objectives of the
mentoring program to the faculty mentors and share the context and
common student concerns.

9.4.2 Plan and coordinate the mentoring activity with the faculty coordinators
of the Department.

9.4.3 Arrange training programs for faculty mentors at the commencement of
the Academic Year to ensure uniformity in mentoring program delivery
across all Schools/ Departments.

9.4.4 To be a single point of contact for overall information concerning the

mentoring program at the Department tevel.

Mentor-Mentee Policy, 2019 Page 6 of 10


--- Page 8 ---
10.

a
@

BML MUNJAL

UNIVERSITY“

A HEPO GROUP INITIATIVE

9.4.5 Make timely faculty mentee allocation and monitor the mentoring
program effectiveness.

9.4.6 Maintain mentor-mentee lists and submit the Department levet mentoring
reports to the Head of the Department every month for preparation of
Annual Mentoring Report of the Department.

9.4.7 Convene interactive sessions with faculty mentors to understand the
challenges faced by them and address their concerns.

9.4.8 Analyze the feedback received from mentees and recommend action to
the Head of the Department/Dean;

9.4.9 Keep regular checks on the online portal and encourage/remind mentors
to participate actively and report technical issues in the online mentoring
portal, if any.

9.4.10 Facilitate technical support by coordinating with the IT Support team in
case of technical glitches, if any.

9.4.11 Review the delivery of mentoring program, whenever required, to
Improve mentoring practices/process and general effectiveness of
mentoring.

9.4.12 Attend monthly co-ordination meetings with Wellness Centre for exchange
of inputs concerning resolution of problems faced by students, both

academic and non-academic in nature.

ROLE OF FACULTY MENTORS

10.1 The faculty mentors at the Department shall be responsible for actual
mentoring of the mentees assigned under the direction of the Mentoring
Program Coordinators of the respective Department.

10.2 The faculty mentors shall be identified by the Heads of the Departments
and appointed by the Deans of respective Schools for a tenure of two years,

which can be extended or cut short depending upon their performance.

Mentor-Mentee Policy, 2019 Page 7 of 10

‘J

Aw

--- Page 9 ---
®

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY”
A HELO GROUP INITIATIVE

10.3 The faculty mentors shall have the most crucial role as they would directly
interact with and engage with the mentees assigned to them. The roles of
the mentor shall be to:

10.3.1 Help newly admitted students with a supportive environment and help
them adjust to the University academic policies.

10.3.2 Be familiar about the socio-cultural backgrounds of mentees under
their charge and help them to overcome challenges arising from a
multicultural classroom environment.

10.3.3 Establish a sustained connect with the mentees, be helpful and
encourage them to come up with their problems.

10.3.4 Conduct interactive mentoring sessions to engage with the mentees
to identify and understand their strengths and areas of improvement.
Also identify their short term, medium term and long-term goals and
guide them towards the same. The sessions can be one-on-one or ina
group depending upon the situation.

10.3.5 Be available to the mentees beyond the classroom and keep them
informed if for some unforeseen reason they are unavailable for a
scheduled mentoring session.

10.3.6 Be empathetic, unbiased and good listeners.

10.3.7 Maintain regular feedback on mentees attendance regularity,
academic performance, conduct, etc. and advise/mentor on short
fall, if any.

10.3.8 Positively communicate to the concerned teacher/official, mentees
concern about a particular course of other matters.

10.3.9 Keep the Mentoring Program Coordinator informed of the issues that
require attention.

10.3.10 Identify mentees with attitudinal problems requiring psychologicat

counseling and refer them to the University Counselor.

Mentor-Mentee Policy, 2019 Page 8 of 10

--- Page 10 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ”

AHECO GROUP INITIATIVE
10.3.11 To maintain strict confidentiality on mentees’ concerns that are of

personal/ sensitive nature.
10. 3.12 Regularly submit mentoring feedback forms with their assessment to

the Mentoring Program Coordinator for Carrying out detailed analysis.

11. MENTEES RESPONSIBILITY
11.1 The primary aim of the mentoring program is to facilitate the learning efforts
of the students and providing an enabling campus environment. The mentee
should, in their own interest, make use of the same in the best possible
manner.
11.2 All mentees are, therefore, expected to:

11.2.1 Take maximum advantage of the mentoring program of the University
and meet designated faculty mentors on a regular basis to resolve
their academic/ other issues.

11.2.2 Follow the instructions of the Mentoring Program Coordinators and the
Faculty Mentors to resolve issues.

11.2.3 Have a sense of responsibility and commitment towards their learning
Pursuits.

11.2.4 Take the feedback provided by the Faculty Mentors positively and
make serious efforts to act upon and improve.

11.2.5 Be open and receptive to the new methods of teaching-learning and
seek help, whenever required.

11.2.6 Be focused on achieving desired results.

11.2.7 Be disciplined and focused and make best use of the University’s
facilities and experience for maximizing their potential, developing

skills/ competencies and improve their learning experience.

Mentor-Mentee Policy, 2019 Page 9 of 10

--- Page 11 ---
=

&
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY ™

AHefO GROUP INITIATIVE

12. FEEDBACK ANALYSIS AND FOLLOW UP

12.1 The mentees feedback shall be carefully studied and compiled by the Faculty
Mentors and forwarded to the Mentoring Program Coordinator of the
Department on monthly basis.

12.2 The Mentoring Program Coordinator shall carry out a detailed analysis of the
nature of the problems frequently faced by the mentees and steps taken at
the Faculty Mentors level to address those.

12.3 After carrying out the analysis, the Mentoring Program Coordinator shalt
submit a detailed report with his assessment to the Head of the Department,
suggesting what all corrective actions required to be taken to address major
concerns of the mentees.

12.4 The Head of the Department, after carefully examining the report and the
recommendations made therein, shall initiate suitable action on mentees’
problems those remain to be addressed and submit a quarterly report to the
Dean.

12.5 The Dean shall take up the quarterly report with the concerned faculty
members, academic support staff and other administrative departments for
resolution of the problems/concerns raised by the mentees and submit a
compliance report. The Dean shall also share the compliance report with the
mentees.

12.6 It will be the responsibility of the Heads of Departments and the Deans to
ensure that the provisions of the Mentor-Mentee Policy are being followed

---and put into practice.

Registra
Note- This policy supersedes the clause 4.2 of the Academic Regulations, 2014 of BML Munjal

University.

Mentor-Mentee Policy, 2019 Page 10 of 10
