
--- Page 1 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSIT

4

BMU/RO/UFM/2018/0222 23" July 2018

UNFAIR MEANS POLICY

DISCIPLINARY CONTROL OF STUDENTS IN RELATION TO UNIVERSITY

EXAMINATIONS

(1) During examinations, the candidates shall be under the disciplinary control of the Examination
Centre Superintendent who will issue necessary instructions. If a candidate disobeys
instructions or misbehaves with any member of the supervisory staff or University Observer
or representative or the invigilators at the Centre, he may be expelled from the examination
for that session. The Examination Centre Superintendent shall immediately report the facts of
such a case with full details of evidence to the Controller of Examinations who will refer the
matter to the Unfair Means Committee. The said Committee will make recommendations for
disciplinary action as it may deem fit, to the Vice Chancellor.

(2) The students shall maintain proper discipline and orderly conduct during the examinations.
They shall not make use of any unfair or dishonest means or indulge in disorderly conduct in
the examinations.

(3) ACTS OF DISORDERLY CONDUCT IN THE EXAMINATION:

i. Misbehavior in the examination hall with the Invigilator on duty, the Examiner
conducting a practical or oral examination or the members of flying squads, the
observers, the representatives of the University or other staff working at the
Examination Centre, or with any other candidate, in or around the Examination Centre,
or threat to life of these examination staff, observers, members of flying squads ete.
before, during or after the examination hour

ii. Intentionally tearing off the answer book(s) or a part thereof or a continuation sheet or
any other specific response sheet used in the examination

iii. Writing or sketching abusive or obscene expressions on the answer book or the
continuation sheet or any other response sheet.
iv. Causing damage to laboratory equipment. books and other properties in the examination

hall.
v. Disturbing or disrupting or instigating others to disturb/disrupt the examination.
vi. Instigating others to leave the examination room.
vii. Carrying any weapons into the examination centre

(4) ACTS OF UNFAIR MEANS:
The following shall be deemed to be the act of unfair means:

i. Talking to another candidate or any person, inside or outside the examination hall,
during the examination without the permission of a member of the supervisory staff;

o,
Ka Uy » Page | |
2 &
2 ~

> o/

\

--- Page 2 ---
iii.

vi.

vii.

Vili.

Xi.

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY

Leaving the examination hall without handing over the answer book and/ or continuation
sheet, if any, or any other specifically designed response sheet to the Invigilator or
Supervisor concerned or the concerned authorized officer of the University deputed at
the examination centre, and taking away, tearing off or otherwise disposing off the same
or any part thereof:

Writing matter connected with or relating to a question or solving a question on anything
(such as piece of paper or cloth, scribbling pad), other than the answer book, the
continuation sheet, any other response sheet specifically provided by the University to
the candidate.

Deliberately disclosing one’s identity or making any distinctive marks in the answer
book for that purpose.

Making appeal to the Examiner/Evaluator soliciting favour through the answer book or
through any other mode.

Possession by a candidate or having access to books, notes, paper or any other material,
whether written, inscribed or engraved, or any other device, which could be of help or
assistance to him in answering any part of the question paper.

Concealing, destroying, disfiguring. swallowing, running away with, causing
disappearance of or attempting to do any of these things in respect of any book, notes,
paper or other material or device. used or attempted to be used by a student for assistance
or help in answering a question or a part thereof.

Passing on or attempting to pass on, during the examination hours, a copy of a question,
or a part thereof, or solution to a question paper or a part thereof in any form, to any
other Candidate or to any person;

Smuggling into the examination hall and or receiving/attempting to receive an answer
book or a continuation sheet, or any other form of response sheet or a solution to a
question paper or to a part thereof in any form or taking out or arranging to send an
answer book or continuation sheet, or replacing or attempting to get replaced the answer
book or continuation sheet or any other response sheet during or after the examination
with or without the help of or in connivance with any person connected with the
examination, or through any other agency, whatsoever.

Approaching or influencing directly or indirectly a paper setter, examiner, evaluator,
moderator, tabulator or printer or any other person connected with the University
examination with the object. directly or indirectly, of influencing him to leak out the
question paper or any part thereof, or stealing/procuring the question paper from any
source before the examination or to enhance marks, or favourably evaluate, or to change
the award in favour of the candidate.

Any attempt by a candidate or by any person on his behalf to influence, or interfere with,
directly or indirectly, the discharge of the duties of a member of the supervisory or
inspecting staff of an examination centre before, during or after the examination.
Provided that without prejudice to the generality of the provision of the clause, this
would include any such person who;

abuses, insults, intimidates, assaults any member of the supervisory or inspecting staff,

or threatens to do so;

ALY,
xy Yas Page | 2
t 3
% VW

--- Page 3 ---
xii.

Xili.

xiv.

XV.

XVi.

BML MUNJAL

UNIVERSITY
abuses, insults, intimidates, assaults any other candidate or threatens to do so, shall be
deemed to have interfered with or influenced the discharge of the duties of the
supervisory and the inspecting staff within the meaning of this para.
Copying, attempting to copy. taking assistance or help from any book, notes, paper or
any other material or device or from any other candidate, to do any of these things or
facilitating or rendering any assistance to any other candidate to do any of these things;
Arranging to impersonate for any person, whosoever he may be, or for himself or
impersonating for other candidate at the examination.
Having got the answer book written by anyone outside the examination hall and having
the answer book smuggled into the examination hall for his/her benefit, or of having
managed otherwise to replace the answer book or its any page after the examination
Forging a document or using a forged document knowing it to be forged in any manner
relating to the examination.
Any other act of omission or commission declared by the Academic Council to be unfair
means in respect of any or all the examinations.

(5) REPORTING OF CASES OF UNFAIR MEANS, MISBEHAVIOUR, MISCONDUCT
OR DISORDERLY CONDUCT OF EXAMINATIONS:

(a)

(b)

(c)

A candidate who is suspected to have used unfair means or misbehaved during the
course of the examinations is expected to give a statement about the facts of the incident.
He shall, however, not be forced to give a statement, but the fact of his having refused
to make a statement shall be recorded by the Invigilator and the Centre Superintendent
which shall be witnessed in writing by two other members of the supervisory staff on
duty at the time of occurrence of the incident

A candidate detected or suspected of using unfair means in the examination may be
permitted to answer the remaining question paper, on a separate answer book in the
remaining duration of the examination. The answer book in which the use of unfair
means is suspected shall be seized by the Invigilator or Centre Superintendent, who shall
send both the answer books to the Controller of Examinations with his report. This will
not affect the concerned candidate appearing in the rest of the examinations

All the cases relating to disorderly conduct of examinations, misbehavior /misconduct
of students and their use of unfair means in the examinations and mass copying shall be
reported by the concerned invigilator through the Centre Superintendent or by the
examiner, paper-setter, evaluator, moderator. tabulator or the person connected with the
University examinations as the case may be. with all the relevant material. The
Controller of Examinations shall place before the Unfair Means Committee all those
cases for consideration and decision in each individual case. The Committee shall
recommend penalties, if any.

Page | 3

--- Page 4 ---
wy

(6) DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS;

(a)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(i)

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY

FR FL

The Controller of Examinations or any person authorized by him on his behalf shall
communicate to the candidate, against whom a report has been received, the precise
nature of allegations against him and shall require him to furnish his written explanation
within a stipulated period under intimation to the Head of School/Constituent Unit.

On receipt of the explanation from the candidate through the Head of School/
Constituent Unit or on the expiry of the period stipulated for submitting explanation, if
no explanation is received from the candidate, the Controller of Examinations shall
submit the case before the Unfair Means Committee for consideration and make
recommendations to the Vice Chancellor.

After considering all the material on record including the explanation, if any, submitted
by the candidate, the Unfair Means Committee, if satisfied that the candidate is guilty
of the use of dishonest or unfair means or disorderly conduct in the examination, will
take a decision in each case and recommend to the Vice Chancellor the punishment that
may be imposed on the candidate according to the nature of the offence.

Ordinarily, all decisions shall be taken by the Unfair Means Committee by simple
majority. If the members are equally divided, the case shall be referred to the Vice
Chancellor, whose decision shall be final

All decisions of the Unfair Means Committee as approved by the Vice Chancellor shall
be communicated to the student through the Head of School/Constituent Unit by the
Controller of Examinations.

A candidate against whom an enquiry is pending about his allegedly having resorted to
the use of dishonest or unfair means, or disorderly conduct in the examination or against
whom action is initiated under the provisions of the preceding clause shall, if he takes
or has taken any subsequent examination, be deemed to have been only provisionally
admitted to that subsequent examination. That subsequent examination will stand
cancelled and his result thereof shall not be declared if on account of the punishment
imposed on him as a result of the said enquiry or action, he would not have been entitled
to take that examination but for his provisional admission thereto.

Notwithstanding anything contained expressly or implied in these Regulations, the Vice
Chancellor may, on being satisfied after such enquiry as he may deem fit for the
following contingencies, withdraw retrospectively. prior to the publication of the final
results of a student in a course, the permission granted to such candidate to pursue that
course or to appear at a University examination in relation thereto:

the student was ineligible for admission to the course but was wrongly admitted, or

(ii) the student was ineligible to take the examination on account of shortage of attendance

but was permitted to do so by some mistake or some other unavoidable reason, or

ke aN Page | 4
; 2
a iS

--- Page 5 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY

(iii) a discrepancy was found in the attendance record on account of which the candidate
who had taken the examination was in fact ineligible, or

(iv) a discrepancy was discovered in the award of marks etc. which rendered the result of
the student liable to be cancelled to his disadvantage.

Provided, that no such action shall be taken by the Vice Chancellor without giving an
opportunity to the concerned student to show cause against the proposed action and
provided further that such action shall require the confirmation of the Academic
Council.

(7) PENALTIES

The Unfair Means Committee may recommend penalties as indicated in the table given
below. However, this list is indicative and any offence that is not included in it, the
Committee may recommend penalty depending on the gravity of the offence:

Category Nature of Offence Punishment

i. A student is found talking inthe -
Examination hall with another student.

ii. A student is found to be talking to a
person outside the Examination-hall
before submission of the answer sheet e.g.
while going to the wash room ete.

iii. A student has deliberately changed
his/her seat in the Examination-hall The first answer-book may be
without the permission of invigilator. cancelled and the second answer-book
only to be evaluated or both the sheets
Category 1 | iv. A student is reported to have appealed | may be cancelled and F Grade awarded
to the Examiner in the answer-book. depending on the gravity of the
(Examiner should report such cases to the | offence.

Controller of Examinations, as they may
arise during evaluation exercise).

v. A student has deliberately disclosed
one's identity by making any distinctive
mark in the answer book for that purpose
(Examiner/Invigilator should report such
cases to the Controller of Examinations).

_| vi. A student tries to/or appeals tothe | pose

eat LON Page | 5

wr FF
&

p)
a
y

by

--- Page 6 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY

Invigilator for help during the
Examination

Category 2

i. Writing the solutions of the questions on
the question paper itself /electronic device
etc. during the Examination whether with
or without intention to use/circulate the
same.

ii. A student is found possessing cell
phone/smart watch or any other item of
such type or communication gadget in the
Examination hall.

iii, A student is found possessing printed
unauthorized material, papers, books, or
notes written on any part of the
candidate's clothes or any writing on his/
her body or table or desk or on a foot rule
and/ or instruments like set squares,
protractors, slide rules or any other
material with notes or hints written
thereon or any such material accessible to
him / her which may be, or intended to be
of possible help to the candidate in the
examination but as per assessment of
invigilator has not used the same.

iv. Possessing a solution to a question set
in the question paper.

y. Difference in handwriting in the
Answer Script

Cancellation of the Exam for the course
and award of ‘F’ Grade. DAC Level — |

Category 3

i. Copying or attempting to copy from the
objectionable material found in his / her
possession.

ii. Copying or attempting to copy from
another candidate.

iii, Assisting another candidate to copy
from the objectionable material in his /
her possession or from his / her answer-
book.

Cancellation of the Exam for the course
and award of R grade in that course.
DAC Level - II.

Page | 6


--- Page 7 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY

10M HER

iv. Receiving help or attempting to
receive help for answering the question
paper from any source in any manner,
inside or outside the examination hall.

v. Swallowing or attempting to swallow a
note or paper or running away with it or
causing its disappearance or destroying it
in any manner.

vi. Passing or attempting to pass on to
any one a copy of the question set in the
question paper or the question itself, or a
part thereof, or a solution to a question
set in the question paper.

vii. Use of mobile/Smart Watch or other
means of electronics communication
inside the examination hall.

viii. Using/Communicating or trying to
communicate, by any means whatsoever,
through electronic media or otherwise
with any other person in a manner that is
indicative of help being sought/ given in
an examination.

ix, Leaving the examination hall without
delivering to the supervisor concerned

the answer book or part thereof or taking
away the same or tearing it or otherwise |
disposing it off. |

x. Misbehaving with the Superintendent
or any other member of the Supervisory
staff or any member of the inspection
team or the flying squad, or with another
candidate inside the examination hall or
outside, before, during or after the
examination.

xi. Creating disturbance in the
examination hall or in its vicinity

Z ‘ BL
Ww’ &. Page | 7
dk
%

*

<

‘Ss
N
isaa>

--- Page 8 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY

Category 4

Ee Guilty of having made previous
arrangement to obtain help through any
student, supervisory or ministerial staff or
some other agency/person in connection
with the question paper.

ii. Smuggling an answer booklet or a
continuation sheet or any part thereof in or
outside the place of examination.

iii. Replacing or getting replaced answer
books or any of its leaves or a
continuation sheet during or after the
examination.

iv. Interfering with or counterfeiting of
University seal, or answer books or office
stationary used in the examinations.

v. Communicating or attempting to
communicate, directly or through person,
with an examiner with the object of
influencing him / her in the award of
marks.

vi. Writing deliberately another students’
roll no. in his/her answer-book

vii. Using abusive or obscene language in
the answer book.

viii. Coming to the examination hall under
the influence of alcoholic drink or drugs.

All Examinations of that Term to be
cancelled and the student to be awarded
*R? grade in all courses registered for
the Term. DAC Level III/IV

In addition. the student may be
debarred from appearing in any
University Examination for a period of
one or more Term or expulsion from
the University depending on the gravity
of the offence.

Category 5

i. Getting oneself impersonated by
someone in the examination or
impersonating another candidate

ii. Organizing a walk out; or instigating
others to walk out; or misconducting
oneself in any manner in or outside the
examination hall

iii. Carrying into the examination hall fire-
arms or any other weapon. —__

Expulsion from the University

Page | 8


--- Page 9 ---
BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSIT

In addition, every student who is found guilty of using unfair means or disorderly conduct during
the examinations will have to compulsorily complete an online course on Plagiarism. Failing to
show the certificate of completion of the course to the Head of School, a student’s degree will be
withheld.

For Repeat offence, a higher level of the penalty will be awarded

(8) Unfair means / Plagiarism in Class Work

Any case pertaining to purported resorting to unfair means/ plagiarism during the Class
Work/ Quizzes/ Submission of Seminar Report/ Dissertation/ Practical's/ Laboratory
Classes/ Projects etc. shall be dealt with by the appropriate committee/ persons as
nominated by the Deans of respective schools. If in the opinion of such committee the
offence is of serious nature, it shall be referred to the Unfair Means Committee of the
University.

(9) Plagiarism
The following steps lay down the procedure for handling cases of suspected plagiarism and
the penalties that will be commensurate with the severity of the suspected offense:
If the document is found to be plagiarised:
1. Course Instructor will inform the UFM Committee through the program office.
2. Inthe hearing of the UFM Committee proceedings, the student will be called and the
details of the case will be captured in the “Plagiarism Record Form”.
3. The Committee will also invite the instructor for this meeting in order to take inputs
about the plagiarism case reported.
. The committee will use its judgement to define the plagiarised work as either
a. Minor Offense: Work with poor referencing and is more a consequence of poor
academic practice rather than intentional act to deceive. A minor offense could result
in any one or more of the following:
i. That the student concerned is informally reprimanded and no other action is taken
(this is recorded in student’s file with the department)
ii. That the student concerned be reprimanded and overall marks in the submission to
be reduced i.e. marks to awarded only for the un-plagiarised section
iii. That the student concerned be reprimanded and the overall mark in the submission
to be capped to a passing mark
iv. That the student concerned be reprimanded and a zero mark to be awarded in the
submission
v. DAC Level — | to be awarded
Major Offense: A major offense shall be defined as copying significantly large
sections of the submission from various sources without acknowledging the source:
has used another student’ work, repetitive minor offences (third minor offense will
be treated as major) as it will be deemed to be serious if the student has already been

= cs Up Page | 9
\ wy Ky a
= Pp
BS kg
e se

Ss


--- Page 10 ---
ii.
ili.

vi.

Vii.

Vili.

BML MUNJAL
UNIVERSITY

reprimanded for a previous act of plagiarism and matters where it is apparent that it
was a deliberate attempt to cheat.

UFM Committee in such cases will hold meeting with the student to understand the
nature of the offense and can propose any one or more of the following:

That the offense is not proven and no further action is required

That the offense is minor and should be dealt accordingly

That it is a prime facie case of major plagiarism and the offense is proven- the marks
in the submission be set to zero

That the marks in the course be capped to passing mark

That the mark in the course be set to zero and the student re-submits the work by
paying the fees as levied for an improvement exam

That the marks be set to zero for all the subjects and the student will have to drop a
year to continue in the program

In most serious of the situations, where the student shows no scope of improvement,
that the student be expelled from the University

DAC Level - III to be awarded

(10) APPEALS AND REVIEW

(a)

A student on whom any punishment has been imposed may, within 05 days from the
date of the receipt of the communication in that behalf, make a representation to the
Vice Chancellor for review of his case. The Vice Chancellor, if he deems it necessary.
may refer it back to Unfair Means Committee for review. The recommendations of the
Unfair Means Committee on the Appeal shall be placed before the Vice Chancellor
who will thereupon review the case and pass such orders as he may consider fit or refer
it to a committee specially constituted for the purpose of review.

If within four months of the publication of the results, it is brought to the notice of the
Controller of Examinations that a candidate was guilty of the use of dishonest or unfair
means at the examination in respect of which his result was declared, the provisions of
these regulations shall apply mutatis mutandis to the case of such a candidate provided
that before imposing any penalty including the penalty of cancellation of his result, he
shall be given another opportunity to show cause against the proposed punishment and

- his explanation, if any, shall be considered by the Academic Council.

Controller of Examination

A

Registrar

Page | 10
